hi you mistress here with Ed Margolis
co-director lucky glider rescue and
sanctuary and it's here to answer a few
common questions about housing sugar
gliders so ed I being mix for being here
thanks for coming again ok so first
question Matt hasn't shared bloggers
what kind of cage should they be in good
question oh it's a good idea to have
them in a cage that's about yeah I play
a medium to mark sighs parakeet cage the
bar spacing should be no wider than a
half an inch three quarters of an inch
some of them can stick their heads
through they can get their head through
they can get the rest of their body
through yeah so that the cage can be you
know 2 feet in deep you know four feet
tall you know 2 feet 13 feet wide you
know it's a good size a good a good
medium to large-sized hierarchy cage you
want to make sure that the material
that's used is a you know is a powder
coat or stainless type of type of
material you don't want to use chicken
wire you don't want to use galvanized
stuff but you can use powder coat you
can use coded plastic coated or
stainless materials all right so where
is the best place to put the shirt by
the cage in your house that's a good
question you know depends on if your
light sleeper or not because some people
that prefer to have them in their
bedroom but they do bark at night quite
often and if that's a problem or keeping
you awake and there's no other room to
put them in I would recommend not
acquiring sugar tires you know
because you're going to want to get rid
of them at the market night and they
will we're going to run on the way over
to run around the cage so I would say
that you want to keep them in a common
area where they can hear you during the
day and I even though they are nocturnal
they do groom each other and lounge
around inside the nesting box on the
pouch during the day and they can hear
what you're doing and I think it's a
comfort for them to hear the day on the
activities they don't like really loud
sounds so you don't want to you know
last the stereo really loud or make any
really loud sounds you have cover them
at night like birds well I think if you
want to cover the partial to cover the
cage especially the area where the food
is because they like to fling their food
so covering the cage is a good idea also
helps to avoid drafts but routine when
you should cover the cages but leave the
front of the cage open so they can see
out and things of course the cage is
only their home base that's where you
keep them so they can be safe if you let
them out of the cage a lot and give them
some freedom especially don't have other
animals running around that's what they
like the most so the case where they eat
and sleep but you want them playing
outside of the cages as often as you can
okay and what kind of what she did
provide for them to sleep in like a ax a
nest like a bird's nest or a box yeah I
mean we use the common parakeet nesting
box you can get it to you know explore
for on ten dollars little wooden box at
the lid and a little hole drilled in the
side and you can put sloth of four by
four slots of fleece in there a whole
bunch of them and I'll make a nest in
there and they love that content and you
can use a standard you know glider couch
as well gliders also liked how to
alternate nesting spot so it's okay to
have a nesting box and a powder too
in the cage so they can switch up where
they really sleep okay what kind of play
things that they need to sugar gliders
like and are there any out there that
are less than safe yeah good question uh
first and foremost you should give them
a wheel Flyers get stressed out when
they're in the cage a lot they need to
run they need to exercise if you give
them a wheel they can't let Belize get
plenty of exercise and they seem to
enjoy it I think the best really can get
is let's close stuff wheel there you
know manufactured in mom and pop or
small company that makes them they're
expensive they're like $45 or so but
they're completely silent and the
running part of it is a mesh that allows
you you know any waste that happens to
fall through the cracks and you also
also put sandpaper on the outside facing
an to keep your nails trimmed so that's
the best time you can get a cage mounted
or a floor-mounted the ones that aren't
very good are the ones that have any
kind of a crossbar any kind of a
crossbar range it's not good because
they can get their foot or your leg
stuck in between the crossbar and the
and the piece holding it up not good I
would not recommend this second best is
the silent spinner which has an open
front and all the works are on the back
end of it so they can't get caught up in
the works they're made of plastic and
they're pretty in come in various sizes
other toys are just a non top safe
non-toxic plastic toys are fine barrel
of monkeys gradually they did they run
around and around and they take them
back to the nest parakeet or parrot toys
such as the woven you know the woven
little rattan
you know chew toys or fine popsicle
sticks pieces of balsa wood little party
favors that you get a party fingers
where the plastic figurines are fine
little willow balls twigs things like
that are good and of course it's a good
idea to provide branches and ladders
going to climb onto you yeah simulate
their environment okay what kind of food
containers are best for stripper you
know that's a good question that you
know we like the open once those are
easy you know to stick their little
heads in and eat like a parakeet type
rounded you know semi-round type of
arrangement we feed a lot of ours out a
little cat cat dishes where it's a
two-sided dish with stupid one side and
hard foods on the other and a separate
water dish we prefer the water dishes
are more predictable than the tubes the
tubes sometimes they clogged or where
they drain there's no water so what
we'll do is we'll put a little shelf
will water up a shelf inside the cage
and put fleece on top of the shelf said
something like sit on and put the water
underneath that so that no waste it's in
the water you can also get a little shoe
caddy the climber has little drawer it
to put shoes in and you can stock up in
your in your closet you can use a chute
can you pull the drawer out and just
help me the caddy part and you can put
the food under that and you know Drake
it with a diaper or some other material
to keep the flinging down ok and so some
of them want to build their own catering
no I would recommend by the time you buy
the materials and the fasteners and all
the stuff you need to build a cage
you're very close to the cost of within
a couple dollars of the cost of a
standard store blog page that has a
standard spacing and that the wires that
you need in the little doors and the
hinges never been already done so no I
would not recommend building your own
cage unless you're real expert at that
kind of thing I would just go get a
standard page go to ebay go to ebay go
on the internet there's all kinds of
sugar glider teachers out there and get
for anywhere from fifty dollars to 391
sighs all right well that's it thank you
for being here remember if you have any
questions you can visit www Qi York stay
tuned for more informative interviews
with ed and remember please if you're
planning on adopting a sugared butter
please the dog from a shelter don't buy
some steam thanks